---
layout: post
title: 3.4 Hospital Lab
prevurl: "units/03/03/"
prevtitle: 3.3 Cleaning and Preparing Data
nexturl: "units/04/01/"
nexttitle: 4.1 Descriptive Statistics and Limitations
---
We've practiced cleaning data in class, but this time, you will be working with a real dataset containing information about NY hospital beds capacity. However, it's been bungled! There was a supernatural global thunderstorm that hit every replica and backup of our database, and some of the data has gone bad. That, or the manual data entry didn't go very well. Either way, your job is to salvage what you can!

## Objectives
This lab is intended to **evaluate** your ability to:
  * clean and prepare raw data for analysis
  * understand and explain different cleaning methods

## Task
Take the given csv and clean it using the methods we've practiced in class. Then, write a Python program that will read in the csv and populate a list of dictionaries. Each dictionary should represent a data point with labels and corresponding values.

Write a blog post for your website with responses to the following:
  1. Describe each step of the data cleaning process. Include details about what you did, what you learned about the dataset, and what issues might affect analysis later on. Focus more on the *statistical* side of the lab!
  1. Discuss the missing data. Were there any data points you kept? What did you do with the data points that were missing some values?
  1. Discuss your process of how you worked on this lab. Include details such as **who you worked with**, what methods you tried, what worked or didn't work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Focus more on the *programming* side of the lab! Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response.

Submit your Python file and the cleaned csv using Google Classroom. You can also find the rubic there.
## Useful Information
### The csv file
Here are explanations for what some of the labels mean:
  * type: ACUTE, ICU, PSYCHIATRIC, OTHER
    * indicates the type of hospital bed
  * measure: XHAB = how many beds per X people
    * 1000HAB = beds per 1000 people
  * source: where this data comes from (check out the sourceurl!)


## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code or files! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class, as long as they are **cited**, and in your blog post you include an explanation of how and why they are used.