---
layout: post
title: 3.5 Hospital Lab
prevurl: "units/03/04/"
prevtitle: 3.4 Using APIs
nexturl: "units/04/01/"
nexttitle: 4.1 Descriptive Statistics and Limitations
---
We've practiced cleaning data and using APIs, and now you will be working with a real dataset containing information about NY hopsital beds capacity. Most of the data is good to go, but the **bed measures** have not been standardized. You might also find that some values are missing! You'll have to clean the data before you can do any analysis.

## Objectives
This lab is intended to **evaluate** your ability to:
  * obtain data using a web API
  * clean and prepare data for analysis

This lab is intended to **review** your ability to:
  * use Python for data analysis

## Task
Use the provided API to generate a csv file, which you should then manually clean. Again, the bed measures haven't been standardized, and some values are missing. Then, write a Python program to analyze this csv.

Write a blog post for your website with responses to the following:
  1. Which county has the most hospital beds per person (regardless of bed type)?
  1. Discuss how you obtained and cleaned the dataset. Make sure to explain what methods you used and why.
  1. Discuss the missing data. Were there any data points you kept? What did you do with the data points that were missing some values?
  1. Discuss your process of how you worked on this lab. Include details such as **who you worked with**, what methods you tried, what worked or didn't work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Focus more on the *programming* side of the lab! Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response.

## Useful Information
You will encounter some unfamiliar labels in the dataset. Here is what they mean:
  * type: ACUTE, ICU, PSYCHIATRIC, OTHER
    * indicates the type of hospital bed
  * measure: XHAB = how many beds per X people
    * 500HAB = beds per 500 people
    * 1000HAB = beds per 1000 people
    * and so on...

## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code or files! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class, as long as they are **cited**, and in your blog post you include an explanation of how and why they are used.