---
layout: post
title: 1.4 Iris Lab
prevurl: "units/01/03/"
prevtitle: "1.3 Python"
nexturl: "units/02/01/"
nexttitle: "2.1 : Introduction to Data"
---
The [Iris dataset](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Iris), published by UCI, is an example of a great first dataset to work with. The dataset is clean, clearly labeled, and consists of only numbers. This week's lab will introduce you to using Python to process a csv file.

Make sure you download the csv file from Google Classroom!

## Reading Files [(slides)][io slides]
Python allows us to read files and load that information into lists and dictionaries!

[Python's csv documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html) will be useful.

> 🞛 `with open ... as`, csv module, `csv.reader`, `csv.DictReader`

## Objectives
This lab is intended to evaluate your ability to:
  * open, read, and process information from a csv file using Python
    * use variables, lists/dictionaries, functions, loops
  * write a blog post using Markdown
  * update your website with the new post using Git and Terminal

## Task
Write a blog post for your website with answers to the following questions:
  1. Which species of iris has the longest petals (on average)?
  2. Which species of iris has the widest sepals (on average)?
  3. Describe your process in finding these answers. Include details such as **who you worked with**, what methods you tried, what worked or didn't work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response!

Submit your Python file using Google Classroom. You can also find the rubric there.


### Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are not_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class.

[io slides]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JHBfo-6j9EWEzNgj5HFVE9o9MPxxMm4FZybHwi5Lkn8/edit?usp=sharing