---
layout: post
title: 5.4 Lab 5
prevurl: "units/05/03/"
prevtitle: 5.3 Creating Visualizations
nexturl: "units/06/01/"
nexttitle: 6.1 Introduction to Probability
---
## Objectives
This lab is intended to **evaluate** your ability to:
  * use `pandas` to analyze and explore a dataset
  * use `Altair` to create visualizations for a dataset
  * explain your design choices for your visualizations
  * use `Jupyter` notebooks

This lab is intended to **review** your ability to:
  * prepare a dataset for analysis
  * statistically describe variables of a dataset using supporting evidence
     * including summary statistics, distributions, conditional proportions, etc

## Task
You will be analyzing and visualizing a dataset that meets the following criteria:
  * At least two categorical variables and two quantitative variables
  * At least 300 data points

There will be a dataset on Google Classroom that you may use. You *don't* have to use that one! If you'd like to find one on your own, [Awesome Public Datasets](https://github.com/awesomedata/awesome-public-datasets) is a great place to start.

Your website blog post should be a Jupyter notebook that addresses the following:
  1. Introduce your dataset. What is being recorded? Why are you interested in about this dataset? Who created this dataset? What information might this dataset be missing? What are you hoping to learn from this dataset?
  1. Choose two quantitative variables from your dataset. Analyze each variable individually, and then analyze their relationship. Include details such as measures of center and variability, correlation, and visualizations.
  1. Choose two categorical variables from your dataset. Analyze each variable individually, and then analyze their relationship. Include supporting details and visualizations.
  1. Create an *explanatory* and *interactive* visualization using the variables that you have just analyzed. You do not have to use all four. There should be a clear central message that your visualization conveys. The visualization should have a title and clear axis labels. Your explanation should include details about marks and channels. Be sure to provide explanations for any design decisions you make, and include statistical evidence that supports your message.

## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code or files! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class, as long as they are **cited**, and in your blog post you include an explanation of how and why they are used.