---
layout: post
title: 2.3 Postfix Calculator Lab
prevurl: "units/02/02/"
prevtitle: "2.2 How Data is Organized"
nexturl: "units/03/01/"
nexttitle: "3.1 : Designing a Study"
---
Infix notation (what we're used to) is difficult for computers to read, since it often comes with implicit parentheses and ambiguous order of operations. _Postfix_ notation is read left-to-right, and therefore easier for computers to process and understand.


## Objectives
This lab is intended to **evaluate** your ability to:
  * use previously written modules in Python
  * use stacks to analyze and process data

This lab is intended to **review** your ability to:
  * read information from a csv file using Python
  * use programming concepts such as functions, loops, and lists
  * write and upload a blog post using Markdown, Git, and Terminal

## Task
Write a blog post for your website with answers to the following questions:
  1. Calculate what each line in `calculate_me.csv` evaluates to. The only operators are `+`, `-`, and `*`! There is no `/`. What is the average of all the final values?
  2. Explain how a stack is used to evaluate postfix notation.
  3. Describe your process of how you worked on this lab. Include details such as **who you worked with**, what methods you tried, what worked or didn't work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response!

Submit your Python file using Google Classroom. You can also find the rubric there.

## Hints
  1. Make sure you import and use the `Stack` class we wrote together!
  2. An `evaluate` function will come in handy for organizing your code. `evaluate` should take a postfix expression and return the number it evaluates to.
  3. Test your `evaluate` function with your own expressions!
  4. Review `csv` module! How is each row in the csv file represented?


### Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are not_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class.