---
layout: post
title: 7.3 Final Lab
prevurl: "units/07/02/"
prevtitle: 7.2 Significance Testing
---
You made it! It's the final lab for the year!

## Objectives
This lab is intended to **evaluate** your ability to:
  * prepare a dataset for analysis
  * statistically describle variables of a dataset using supporting evidence
  * use `pandas` to analyze and explore a dataset
  * create visualizations for a dataset
  * explain your design choices for your visualizations
  * create sampling distributions via bootstrapping method
  * state and test hypotheses about the data
  * infer about a population using confidence intervals and p-values

## Task
You will be analyzing and visualizing a dataset! (surprise)

There will be a dataset on Google Classroom that you may use. You *don't* have to use that one! If you'd like to find one on your own, [Awesome Public Datasets](https://github.com/awesomedata/awesome-public-datasets) is a great place to start.

Your website blog post should addresses the following:
  1. What is the dataset? Analyze where it's from, the assumptions that it makes, what data might be missing, and what biases it may be prone to.
  1. State your null and alternative hypotheses. This should happen *before* you start analyzing the dataset!
  1. Statistically describe the variables in the dataset that pertain to your hypotheses. This description should include numerical values (e.g. means, medians, standard deviations, proportions), as well as any visualizations that may be helpful to the reader (e.g. histograms, bar charts).
  1. Create an *exploratory* visualization of the variables that you have analyzed. What did you learn about the data from this visualization?
  1. Find confidence intervals and perform significance testing on your hypotheses. While you are allowed to use libraries, you should use bootstrapping to calculate these values. What conclusions can you make about the population based on your analysis of this sample? Support these conclusions with statistical evidence.
  1. Create an *explanatory* visualization that supports what you learned from the previous step.

You may use Jupyter notebooks or just a regular Markdown file with code snippets embedded.

## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code or files! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are_ allowed to use modules we haven't talked about in class, as long as they are **cited**, and in your blog post you include an explanation of how and why they are used.